# Floweret-Flower Recognition System

##### In recent years, with the speedy development in the digital contents identification, automatic classification of the images became most challenging task in the fields of computer vision. Automatic understanding and analysing of images is something that Neural Network excels. The study attempts to investigate the effect of Customised Convolutional Neural Network and others Pre-trained Models’ on our combined (built-in and owned) Dataset. The Datasets we have used are Oxford Flower-17 Dataset and Oxford Flower-102 Dataset along with our own collected class thus we have used the dataset containing total 18 number of classes collectively named as F-18 Dataset (Flower-18 Dataset).
##### In addition, the study focused on the determination of a Classification model that recognizes the Flower; as Flowers play important role in our daily life. Images of four  Flowers from our surrounding are captured from different resources and used for Dataset, Altogether Images for 14 Flower species are collectively taken from built-ins and 4 new classes are collected from the surroundings. Thus the collected amount of  Images in the Dataset is approximately 1600s and the train-test split ratio was set to 80-20% for training and validation purpose. To accomplish the objective, Convolutional Neural Network is being trained with a large number of iterations and epochs. Before classifying it requires feature extraction that is achieved by the functions of different Layers of the CNN Model. We were able to achieve the 95.10% training accuracy and 91.25% validation accuracy with our MTH-3 CNN model named as MTH-3 Model that is a satisfying accuracy as compared to the pre-trained models. Then it is being tested by real time image, and the result obtained from it is completely satisfying. 
